---
title: Arrow 1.2.2 release
category: articles
tags: [core, articles]
---

# Arrow 1.2.2 release

We are happy to announce the availability of version 1.2.2 of the Arrow collection of libraries.
According to our plan, this is the last non-bugfix release of the 1.x series.
From now on, our `main` branch targets Arrow 2.0, which should be the next major release.

## Improved focus on Compose

Arrow provides building blocks relevant for many projects using Kotlin.
A large part of our community is doing frontend work, and during the latest months
the team has been trying to understand their needs, in order to make Arrow
a relevant tool in that space.

From that journey we have put together a new documentation page highlighting
different ways in which Arrow may be useful in your Compose application.
There is also a new `arrow-optics-compose` module that includes utilities to
work with immutable data inside a `MutableState` or `MutableStateFlow`.

## Forward compatible `Eval`

One of our goals is to make the transition to 2.0 as smooth as possible.
You can [already migrate] to the new APIs by using Arrow 1.2.2, and then ensuring that you get no deprecation warnings.

During this process we were [made aware](https://github.com/arrow-kt/arrow/issues/3039) that
there was no clear story for migration of `Eval`. On the other hand, the use cases are very narrow.
The decision was to create a new `arrow-eval` module, present since this release,
and mark the one from `arrow-core` to be deprecated in 2.0.

## Better memoization

[`MemoizedDeepRecursiveFunction`](https://arrow-kt.io/learn/collections-functions/recursive/#memoized-recursive-functions)
is a powerful tool to express recursive algorithms without worries over stack overflow or recomputation.
However, there was a lack of control over how memoized values were stored or evicted, which made the
type less useful than intended.

From this release on, there are new overloads to support custom memoization policies.
Furthermore, the new `arrow-cache4k` module provides integration with the excellent
[cache4k](https://github.com/ReactiveCircus/cache4k) library.

## Collectors

The new `arrow-collectors` library allows composing operations over sequences of values
(lists, flows, sequences) while ensuring that the sequence is traversed only once.
This property is especially relevant when building the sequence is expensive, or simply
cannot be reproduced, like a stream of data from a database or a flow of actions.

## More integrations

Although not part of this release, we would like to highlight that
[Akkurate](https://akkurate.dev), which provides a wonderful DSL for validation over data,
has released an [integration module for Arrow](https://akkurate.dev/docs/arrow-integration.html).
This adds to the [rest of integrations](https://arrow-kt.io/learn/integrations/),
and shows the collaborative spirit of the Kotlin community.
