---
title: Arrow 2.0 release
category: articles
tags: [core, articles]
---

# Arrow 2.0 release

We are happy to announce the next major release of Arrow, version 2.0!
As previously announced, migrating your projects to this release should be hassle-free
if your code compiled in 1.2.x without any deprecation warnings
(except for the breaking change in optics generation discussed below).

This release is built with the new K2 compiler, and this gives us the ability
to support a wider range of platforms, including WebAssembly. From now on, we shall
provide artifacts for every platform supported by Kotlin.

Apart from stabilization and general bug fixing, the theme of this release
is improving the different DSLs provided by Arrow libraries. Our goal is to
empower developers to write more succinct and readable code.

* [Simple accumulation in Raise](#simple-accumulation-in-raise) (experimental)
* [Additions to Fx](#additions-to-fx)
* [Clearer retries for particular exceptions](#clearer-retries-for-particular-exceptions)
* [Improved optics](#improved-optics) (breaking changes)
* [Pattern matching](#pattern-matching)
* [Better support for kotlinx.serialization](#better-support-for-kotlinxserialization)

## Simple accumulation in Raise

One of the core concepts when working with typed errors is the distinction
between fail-first and [accumulation of errors](/learn/typed-errors/working-with-typed-errors/#accumulating-different-computations). Until now, the latter mode
required using `parZip` and `parMap`, which sometimes obscure the actual
flow of the computation.

In Arrow 2.0 we have sprinkled some DSL dust over `Raise`, and now you can
write your code in a more linear way. Inside an `accumulate` block (or in
general, any `RaiseAccumulate`) you use `by accumulating` to execute some
computation keeping all the errors.

```kotlin
// version with parZip
parZip(
    { checkOneThing() },
    { checkOtherThing() }
) { a, b -> doSomething(a, b) }

// version with accumulate
accumulate {
    val a by accumulating { checkOneThing() }
    val b by accumulating { checkOtherThing() }
    doSomething(a, b)
}
```

This DSL also includes shortcuts for the most common operations, like
`bind`ing and accumulating any problem, or checking a single property
of some data.

```kotlin
accumulate {
    val name by Name(rawName).bindOrAccumulate()
    ensureOrAccumulate(age >= 18) { UnderAge }
    Person(name, age)
}
```

Note that the API may still undergo some change. At this point you need `@OptIn(ExperimentalRaiseAccumulateApi::class)` to allow their usage in your code.

## Additions to Fx

Writing coroutine-heavy code may become cumbersome over time, especially if
one intends to use as much concurrency as possible. Arrow Fx includes a `parZip`
function, but not everybody enjoys having so many brackets.

```kotlin
parZip(
    { downloadFile() },
    { loadDataFromDatabase() }
) { file, data -> Result(file, data) }
```

The new [`awaitAll` scope](/learn/coroutines/parallel/#await-all-scopes) tries to improve the situation by tweaking the
usual `async` mechanism, ensuring that all `Deferred` values are `await`ed
once the first one is requested. That means that the previous code behaves
identically to the following, that is, the call `file.await()` implicitly
awaits every `async` defined up to that point.

```kotlin
awaitAll {
    val file = async { downloadFile() }
    val data = async { loadDataFromDatabase() }
    Result(file.await(), data.await())
}
```

We've also improved the STM block by [allowing delegation](/learn/coroutines/stm/#reading-and-writing-concurrent-state) as a means to
read or change the value of a `TVar`.

```kotlin
fun STM.deposit(accVar: TVar<Int>, amount: Int): Unit {
    val acc by accVar       // delegation here
    val current = acc       // implicit 'read'
    acc = current + amount  // implicit 'write'
}
```

## Clearer retries for particular exceptions

Until now, the [`retry` operation](/learn/resilience/retry-and-repeat/) in the Resilience module would capture
any `Throwable` exception. From version 2.0 on you can specify a subclass
of `Throwable` to be the target for retrying, whereas the rest of
exceptions will bubble as usual.

```kotlin
Schedule.recurs<Throwable>(2)
        .retry<IllegalArgumentException, _> { ... }
```

The subclass of exceptions must be given as a type argument.
Alas, Kotlin does not allow giving only a subset of those, and `retry`
has two type parameters (the second one represents the output type of
the `Schedule`). Fortunately, you can ask the compiler to infer the
second one using `_`.

## Improved optics

The two **breaking changes** in Arrow 2.0 relate to optics.
First of all, the [optics hierarchy](/learn/immutable-data/intro/#many-optics-to-rule-them-all) has been greatly simplified:
now we have traversals, optionals, lenses, prisms, and isos, and no more
intermediate types. This smaller amount of types means that the type of
optic compositions become easier to understand.

We have also changed the generation of optics via the compiler plug-in
(that is, the `@optics` annotation) with respect to nullable fields.
In the 1.x series, a value of type `String?` would be presented as
`Optional<T, String>`; this makes impossible to change the value from
`null` to an actual `String` using only optics operations. From version
2.0, that field is represented as `Lens<T, String?>`. To get the 1.x
behavior you should apply `.notNull` after the optic corresponding to
the field.

One pain point when building [traversals](/learn/immutable-data/traversal/) was the need to provide an
argument to `.every`, like `.every(Every.list())`. This new version
brings an improved variant that requires no arguments if the type
of the `Iterable` is known. Similar improvements have been applied
to `.at` and `.index`.

## Pattern matching

One completely new feature in Arrow 2.0 is the [_pattern matching_ DSL](/learn/immutable-data/matching/).
By combining prisms and lenses one can specify a complex shape, and
then check whether a value fits into that shape, extracting some
pieces of information on the go. The DSL gets quite close to pattern
matching found in functional languages like Haskell or Scala.

We do not intend this package to be a replacement for `when` expressions,
smart casts, and guards already provided by the language. On the other
hand, we acknowledge that pattern matching offers advantages when the
code needs to inspect very nested data.

```kotlin
val User.name: String get() = this.matchOrThrow {
  // Company(name = nm, director = Name(lastName = d))
  User.company(Company.name, Company.director(Name.lastName)) then { (nm, d) -> "$nm, att. $d" }
  // Person(Name(firstName = fn), age if it < 18)
  User.person(Person.name(Name.firstName), Person.age.suchThat { it < 18 }) then { (fn, _) -> fn }
  // Person(Name(firstName = fn, lastName = ln)) -> "Sir/Madam $fn $ln"
  User.person(Person.name(Name.firstName, Name.lastName)) then { (fn, ln) -> "Sir/Madam $fn $ln" }
}
```

We also provide a new package, [`arrow-match`](/learn/immutable-data/matching/#matching-without-optics), which provides the same
pattern matching DSL, but using Kotlin's reflection instead of optics.

## Better support for kotlinx.serialization

Using Arrow Core data types as part of serialized data requires additional integration.
In 1.2.x we started providing compile-time [support for `kotlinx.serialization`](/learn/quickstart/serialization/#kotlinxserialization).
From 2.0 on we also provide `ArrowModule` for
[contextual serialization](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.serialization/blob/master/docs/serializers.md#contextual-serialization). This is needed, among others, when the data is processed
by Ktor.
